# Assignment3

## Assignment 3 Transport Layer

---

**Question1**

1. How TCP react to the loss packet
    1. packet lost
    2. B keep sending the old ACK No. equals to the seq no.of the lost packet to the A
    3. A notices that there are multiple same responses with same ACK no.→ packet lost
    4. A re-sends the packet with seq no equals to the duplicated ACK No.
2. VoIP on TCP with packet lost

    The receiver will not receive the packets after the lost packet

    The sender has to resend the lost packet and all the packets after it.

    The voice receiving is largely delayed, and there will be lag in the voice

3. VoIP should run on UDP
    - TCP → voice delay impairs the quality of the voice.
    - UDP → some voice data packet lost → can still understand the each other
    - real-time application → needs low latency → UDP

**Question2**

(b)

The averaging procedure computes the new estimated RTT by calculating the **weighted** **average** of the recent received sample RTT (weight = a) and the old estimated RTT (weight = 1 - a). Therefore it is a "weighted average ", not an arithmetic average. The procedure only covers the most recent sample RTT received and the old estimated RTT from the previous step. The average window does not include the sample RTTs received before, which is like a moving window sliding through a time-series data when updating RTT estimation for each segment. Therefore it is a "Weighted Moving Average". However, one should be noticed that contributions from the old RTT samples to the new estimated RTT still exist implicitly in the term **estimatedRTTold**. Finally, the weight of a given sample RTT, which is included implicitly in the term **EstimatedRTTold**, decays exponentially as the updates of RTT estimation proceed [Kurose and Ross]. Therefore the procedure is called "**Exponential Weighted Moving Average**".

(c)

Because the procedure wants to put more weights on the recent RTT sample, which should better reflect the current congestion in the network, than the old RTT samples. If we use a simple arithmetic average of all received RTT samples, the weight for every RTT sample, no matter old or new, will be the same.

(d)

TCP does not measuring the RTT sample for the retransmitted segments to avoid the **retransmission** **ambiguity**. The retransmission ambiguity means that we cannot tell if the ACK received after the retransmission is resulted from the packet retransmitted or from the previous packet that caused the timeout. If we count the RTT sample on ACKs for the retransmitted segment, we might get an RTT sample that is much shorter than the real RTT value under the network condition at that moment. In this case, the ACK is from the timeout packet that sent previously but not from the retransmitted packet.

### Question3

1. 4 bytes = 32 bits ⇒ maximum file size L = 2^32 bytes
    - 2^30 ⇒ 1 GB
    - 2^32 bytes = 2^2 GB = 4 GB
2. how long it takes to transmit the file with size of 4GB?
    - **The maximum segment size (MSS)** is a parameter of the options field of the TCP header that specifies the largest amount of data, specified in bytes, that a computer or communications device can receive in a single TCP segment. It does not count the TCP header or the IP header
    - Segments necessary to transfer the file: 2^32 / 1434 = 2995095.7433 ⇒ 2995096 segments
    - The total data including the TCP headers and the file: 2995096 * 66 + 2^32  bytes
    - 60 Mbit/s =60* 2^20 / 8 = 60 * 2^17 bytes/s
    - Time needed for transfer the file:  (2995096 * 66 + 2^32)/ (60 * 2^17) = 571.2692 sec

### Question4

1. 4317 - 3851 = 466 bytes
2. (B→ A) ACK = 3851

    Because B expects to receive an in-order packet begins from seq no. = 3851, it will send the response with this ACK no. again when it receive a packet does not start from seq = 3851. By doing this B informs the sender there might be a packet lost on packet after data seq = 3851.